#summary Release history
#labels Phase-Implementation

== 0.4 - =
Release focus: Stability and Robustness.

 * Minor maintainability updates [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=13 #13], [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=18 #18]
 * Unparsable config lines should not prevent the framework from starting [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=16 #16]
 * Records that dont compile or raise exceptions should not cause the framework to die [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=14 #14]
 * New script has been added to facilitate testing of records interactively [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=15 #15]
 * Start putting in place a system to do periodic maintenance and stats tasks [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=2 #2]
 * Add cacti monitoring templates to monitor a generic PDNS install [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=17 #17]
 * The GeoIP code ignored the configured path to the geoip data and so blew up pretty badly, code is now more robust in handling errors and uses the config.  Thanks Christian Keil for the bug report.  [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=20 #20]
 * Added a rubygem build task and updated install docs etc [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=19 #19]
 * Change the logging output to only show the filename not the full path of the file that produced the log entry
 * Now prints the correct file and line where log lines are being created from  [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=22 #22]

== 0.3.1 - 2009/10/15 ==
Release focus: Bug fixes and improved error handling

 * The GeoIP code ignored the configured path to the geoip data and so blew up pretty badly, code is now more robust in handling errors and uses the config.  Thanks Christian Keil for the bug report.  [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=20 #20]
 * The main loop now has some exception handling and will log a backtrace when it dies, this should help with debugging.  Thanks Christian Keil for the bug report.  [http://code.google.com/p/ruby-pdns/issues/detail?id=21 #21]

== 0.3 - 2009/10/03 ==
Release focus: Get major features completed.

 ||[ReferenceConstructingReplies_0_3 Constructing Replies]||[ReferenceInfoAboutRequests_0_3 About Requests]||[ReferenceGeoIP_0_3 GeoIP]||
 ||[ReferenceRubyExtensions_0_3 Ruby Extensions]||||[ReferenceConfigurationGuide_0_3 Configuration Reference]||[ReferenceInstallGuide_0_3 Install Guide]||
Initial public release.